so AMD just announced the 100 and 120
dollar rise in 330 130 300 X CPUs but
there was another bit of info that you
might have missed that dropped at the
same time on May 7th
further specs and details about the new
budget be 550 chipset it has PCI Express
4.0 support 2-way GPU support and boards
could be available starting at $100 and
up but it's not launching until June
16th and it will not support 1st and 2nd
gen rise in CPUs so today I'll be going
over the important details to help
answer that PC building question that
never seems to go away by now or wait
specifically this time the wait would be
for B 550 also there are 5 motherboards
that we can take a closer look at
starting today the new Asus VG 259 QM
gaming monitor from the tough gaming VG
display series features a 24 point 5
inch full HD IPS panel with an
ultra-fast refresh rate overclockable to
an astounding 280 Hertz
it's Nvidia g-sync compatible to which
practically eliminates ghosting and
tearing for a sharp and fluid gaming
experience it also sports an extremely
fast 1 millisecond response time thanks
to Asus extreme low motion blur sync
technology and its display HDR 400
certified as well click the sponsor link
in the description for more so if there
is any bad news about what has been
shared it's that CPU support is more
limited with B 550 AMD is only
supporting 3000 series CPUs and 4000
series CPUs that's 3000 series CPUs
minus the 3200 GT and 3400 G ap use
because these are actually 12 nanometer
2000 series parts under the hood but to
these promised 4000 series CPUs are
expected to launch later in 2020 now if
you want to know why this limitation
exists it's actually because a m4 has
been around for so long that it has too
many CPUs to account for the
programmable memory that your BIOS uses
to store data is a finite resource and
each CPU entry in the supported CPUs
list takes up space older 300 and 400
series boards simply don't have enough
room to be updated with another list of
CPUs to support at least not without
bumping off some older CPUs to make
space but that would be a bit of a
nightmare for legacy supports and which
boards support which CPUs with different
BIOS updates so AMD decided to simplify
things for B 550 practically speaking
though I think
only people who might be upset by this
would be those who are happy with their
first or second gen rise in CPU like say
you got a 2700 X when it first launched
but you want a new motherboard for some
reason I think this is probably not very
common most people who are considering
an upgrade are doing it for either
access to PCIe 4.0 in which case you
would need both a 3000 series CPU and a
500 series motherboard anyway or
possibly for the better efficiency and
IPC performance of seven nanometers and
- in which case you could get by just
fine with a 3000 series CPU and an
existing 300 or 400 series motherboard
you just wouldn't have PCIe 4.0 support
so hopefully this chart makes things a
little bit more clear the processor
syriza's are over on the left and the
chipsets are on the top and as you can
see this future AMD rise in desktop
processors with sin 3 architecture which
refers to the aforementioned 4000 series
will only work with X 570 and B 550 but
for all intents and purposes if you're
rocking a 3000 series processor you
should probably be rocking a 400 series
motherboard and if you're looking
forward to 4000 series CPUs those will
need one of these 500 series
motherboards of course once the 500
series motherboards launch which is on
June 16th you will be able to slot in an
existing 3000 series CPU whatever you
want to do though I think you have
reasonable a.m. for options available
speaking of reasonable options the new
Rison 330 130 300 X CPUs are
competitively priced at 100 and 120
dollars respectively they supports PCIe
4.0 but they would need to be prepared
with an x5 70 motherboard right now in
order to take advantage of all those
band widths from PCIe 4.0 good x5 70
boards are about $200 enough or even
significantly higher than that so V 550
makes a lot of sense as a budget option
with gen for support but pricing might
be a little bit closer to the X 570
boards than B 450 at least according to
some of the board partners that I have
talked to today AMD said they'll start
at $100 but if I had to guess I would
say that good ones good B 515
motherboards with reasonable power
delivery and useful options will be in
the 140 to 160 dollar range that's
probably okay because the extra 40 to 50
bucks you'd spend over a B for 50 board
does get you some nice bonuses so let's
talk B 550 upgrades and features and
one of the best features in my opinion
isn't shared in this document and in
fact is something that is not there
anymore
there is no chipset fan required this
time around for beef 550 I don't like
little chipset fans and almost all X 570
motherboards require one so having that
not be a thing is a good thing here is a
chipset comparison though which should
lay things out a little bit more clearly
when it comes to the differences between
be 450 B 550 and X 570 B 550 is almost
identical to X 570 with the PCI Express
Gen 4 upgrade applying to the 16 PCIe
lanes dedicated to the GPU and PCI
Express expansion slots and crucially
this also applies to the four lanes set
aside for high-speed nvme SSDs current
GPUs won't really see too much of a
performance bump with PCIe 4.0 since
there's already enough bandwidth for
modern GPUs using pcie 3.0 but nvme SSDs
can go well beyond what gen 3 is capable
of so the gen for support here is very
nice and will be useful for people who
need the speed they also get an upgrade
to native USB 3.2 Gen 2 ports and then
of course you got that dual graphics
support for two-way SLI and crossfire
setups which I don't mind having but
dual GPU configs aren't really what they
used to be these days this means the
real difference here is in the chipset
connection to the CPU which is PCIe gen
4 with X 570 and PCIe gen3
with B 550 that is a little bit of an
upgrade for the general purpose lanes
over the Gen 2 lanes from B 450
basically what this means is that
additional PCIe expansion slots and m
dot 2 slots that are routed through the
chipset won't support PCIe 4.0 that's
pretty much it for the features so let's
take a look at some of the actual
motherboards I have pictures of five of
them from Asus MSI gigabyte as rock and
Biostar these are supposedly high-end B
550 boards so they'll probably be more
expensive but hopefully not quite as
expensive as their X 570 counterparts so
for starters here is the asus rog Strix
b 550 - e gaming and of course a big
feature of these motherboards and i'm
not going to be able to talk about right
now is the power delivery configuration
and you really can't get into the
details of that unless you take out the
heat sinks and look at the components
that are used spilled oil and hardware
unbox do a great job of analyzing the
vrm solutions for these as well as the
cooling on them so we'll stay tuned for
that
as far as power delivery though when it
comes to the power supply connection we
have a four pin and eight pin a decent
amount of fan headers we got three over
there on the right couple more down here
at the bottom these are also flanked by
a dressing and a non addressable RGB fan
header that's four premium features for
this motherboard it does have a debug
LED although it does not appear to have
surface mounted power and reset buttons
debug LED is very convenient one feature
I look for on mid-range to higher-end
motherboards is this USB 3.2 front panel
connector because that's something
that's often left out and if you have a
case with it it's really worth cooking
up especially if you connect external
SSDs beyond that you've got dual MDOT
two drives both with heat sinks and and
hey check out check out the sticker they
put on that CMOS battery isn't that it's
a nice sticker supreme effects audio -
it looks like it does have a fixed i/o
shield as far as I can tell so pretty
nice looking motherboard I kind of like
the glitched ROG logo there as well
here's the gigabyte be 550 horas master
and this is a motherboard that's I
believe with both their X 570 and B 450
and motherboards it was a really popular
one for them reasonably priced and
pretty well designed looks like similar
to Asus down here we have both
addressable and non addressable RGB
headers they have added addressable and
non addressable at the top as well the
Asus board did have a non addressable
one at the top and bottom and it seemed
like just a single addressable eight pin
plus four pin for the power delivery
there something called direct touch on
the heatsink I guessing that means the
heatsink directly touching the heat
generating components of the VRMs that
would make sense we also have a debug
LED here although it does not look like
we're getting that front panel USB 3.1
gen2 connector is that they've opted for
not two but three MDOT to drive slots
here again all with heat sinks on them
amp up audio over there and it's pretty
pretty decent looking board I'd say the
only thing I'm really missing out on
here is that USB 3.2 gen 2 front panel
also it does look like it has a fixed
i/o shield as well I hope that's just
something that all motherboards have now
and will start people stopped talking
about it because it will become a given
but anyway here's the MSI mpg B 550
gaming carbon Wi-Fi which also appears
to have a fixed IO shield as well as
Wi-Fi that's why they put Wi-Fi in the
name same power connection for the power
supply looks like you've also got
addressable RGB LED header
they're at the top for fan headers
conveniently located it does have the
USB 3.2 gen 2 front panel header I like
that
another RGB LED header down there at the
bottom as well as some other functions
like a surface mounted clear CMOS which
this one does not appear to have a debug
LED or a fancy sticker on the CMOS
battery of course that's that's that's
probably a minor issue there and again
we're looking at 2 m dot 2 slots both
with the heat sinks on them and again
nice looking design I'd say for the
chipset heatsink there and just so happy
that those those heatsink fans aren't
required anymore here's the asrock v5 50
Taichi it looks like they've gone with a
bit of a gold accents on here not bright
and garish gold but maybe slightly more
towards a bronze gold I don't think they
look too bad at least not in this
picture again some LED headers at the
top it looks like we've got 2 h plus h
for the power delivery here although
again the components underneath the heat
sinks are going to be more important
than the connection to the power supply
I like the as rack taichi boards because
they have fairly simple BIOS
configurations they usually have pretty
well built power delivery configurations
and they tend to be a pretty good bang
for the buck
you got the USB 3.2 gen 2 front panel
connection over here a couple USB 3.0
headers down here at the bottom you got
surface mounted LED debug as well as
power and reset switch is those are
really convenient looks like you got a
clear CMOS next to that as well and then
a fairly substantial cover over the
lower portion of the board here which
makes it slightly more difficult to
determine the MDOT two configuration but
I'm pretty sure there's one right there
with those two screws and then there's
one down here just above the lowermost
PCIe expansion slot again we appeared to
have a fixed i/o shield and Wi-Fi
integration to actually I just looked
again and it looks like all these
motherboards have Wi-Fi except
potentially this one and I can't verify
that for sure it's just that I'll see
the connectors for the antenna here on
the back this is a BIOS tower
motherboard though the BIOS star racing
be 550 GT q I thinks I think stands for
great quality or something like that I
forget but this is a simpler board it's
also a micro ATX board I like micro ATX
it's a good form factor so our delivery
here is going to be a little bit more
simple you've only got an 8 pin
connection coming from the motherboard 3
RGB LED headers all the way up here on
the top right looks like two addressable
and one non addressable so that's
convenient if you're into the RG
no front panel USB 3.2 gen2
unfortunately but you do have to m dot
two expansion slots it looks like you're
not going to get support for extremely
lengthy ones but probably 20 to 80
support with these which is fine that's
what most MVM e SSDs are anyway and
again I can't tell for sure but it does
look like you probably get a fixed IO
shield even on this board too so that's
cool as well
and then aesthetically is this I'm
guessing this is an RGB light here I
don't think this board looks too bad it
doesn't look quite as good as the other
ones but this is probably gonna be a
less expensive board just a quick look
at some of the motherboard options that
are going to be available in closing
though I want to compare and contrast
the two motherboard syriza's that are
launching in the next month or so as
well as the future CPU launches from
both AMD and Intel on the AMD side we
have heard about the upcoming Xen 3
based 4000 series CPUs even though we
still don't know exactly when they will
launch AMD didn't have to state publicly
that these new B 550 boards and X 570
boards for that matter will support
4,000 series but they did I appreciate
that Intel by comparison is about to
launch a new platform and the LGA 1200
socket for their common Lake s 10th gen
CPUs which still lack PCIe gen for
support similarly we have heard that
they're also going to work on an 11th
gen Korra series codenamed rocket Lake
that will support Gen 4 might be out at
the end of 2020 or beginning of 2021 but
motherboard manufacturers like MSI
gigabyte Asus are already specifically
talking about the PCIe 4.0 capabilities
of the new Z 490 boards even though 10th
gen CPUs are limited to Gen 3 it seems
very clear to me that rocket laker
rocket Lake s at least will be LGA 1200
compatible but Intel still won't make
any promises I wish they would because
DIY builders love to upgrade and the
promise of a viable upgrade path is one
of the core reasons I have spoken so
highly of AMD's decisions with the a m4
platform over the past few years they
told us with the launch of first gen
Rison in March 2017 that this would be
the mainstream platform through 2020 and
they have delivered on that promise
anyway though there are over 60 B 550
motherboards in development says AMD and
they will be available starting June
16th
so if you
looking for a good pairing for a 3100 or
3,300 X and you can really make use of
PCIe gen 4 I think it's worth holding
out for about a month I really hope you
guys have enjoyed this video though I
will put relevant links to important
stuff down in the description so go
ahead and click all those things and let
me know in the comments section if
you're holding out for B 550 or if you
can make do with B 450 or X 570 for now
subscribe if you haven't already check
out my store at Paul's Harbor net for
shirts mugs bottle openers other cool
stuff that you can buy hit the thumbs up
button on your way out of course if this
video made you think happy thoughts and
we'll see you in the next one
[Music]